So we are kind of writing HTML, or
more JSX in case you have
experience with react.
We are defining our views
directly in swift code.
Gradients swift structures.
Okay, now because I'm now running.
My view in the simulator,
the preview is paused.
So you can resume that from here.
Resume and
now you can continue using the preview.
So right now I'm breaking this
part known as content view.
But part of the deal here is that
you can create your own views,
your own reusable views.
Think about components.
So what view you a component,
a visual component.
That's kinda idea, yeah question.
>> So thinking about this print
hey you clicked in the debug code,
let's see I deployed it on my phone and
then tapped on that button.
Please wear that might log out,
on my phone.
>> It's log out in the console
the parameters as a user,
you don't see the console.
If you have your phone connected through
USB, you can actually see that console.
So it's for debugging purposes.
Not for the user.
We are going to make something happen now.
Okay, so typically what you want is to
render something different on the screen,
okay and we will do that,
before doing that.
What if we want to change colors?
What if we wanna change palings, machines,
properties, on most UI toolkits,
classic UI toolkits,
typically we have attributes.
Or properties that we said somehow, so for
example if we wanna that Hello
word text in a different color we
are looking for
a property maybe in the constructor or.
Maybe you'll say okay,
let's create a variable with that text,
and let's see if the text has
a property that can change the color or
something like that, but
this is not how swift UI works.
Swift UI worked with something known
as modifiers, what is a modifier?
A modifier is a function
that receives a view and
returns another view, a modified view.
So the idea is that we are not
going to set the color of the text.
We are gonna create another text with
a different color, another structure.
So, text will have a function
that we can search here for
example, foreground color,
foreground color,
receives a color and returns a text.
So it's not more the find the text,
it's not a setter.
It's creating another text structure
as it makes sense for now.
Let's see that in action,
it receives a color.
Okay, so we don't know yet what color is.
What I'm going to do here is,
I'm going to close for a second.
This panel so
we have more space to work on this,
the color accepts if you just
select.it has an some kind of an enum,
so we can pick one of these color like
green and you can see it's green.
But what is important here is to
understand that we are not actually
changing the text, we're creating
a new text thanks to its modifier and
you will understand what
that means in one second.
Look at this, what if we added padding?
How to add a padding to a view through
another modifier, and we can say padding.
Padding is another function,
so it's a function.
That is when applied to
the result of the other function.
So this is a chain.
I'm not sure if you have played with
jQuery in the past or in the present.
Well in jQuery we use these chain thing
where we change different methods.
This is the same idea this is
actually the same line I mean from
an expression point of view,
it's just one expression.
We construct a text.
Then we create another text
with a green foreground color.
And we take that green text and
apply padding, that returns another text.
So every time we modify a view,
we receive another view.
Okay, how do you know all
the modifiers that we have?
Well, of course you can
just check with that.
So every time you apply a modifier
because you receive another view,
you can apply another dot and
execute another function.
So you can actually search here.
Also, if you use again, the library but
now instead of adding a view
I'm going to add modifiers.
This is the list of modifiers, so
I can search modifiers do you
want to change the border.
Do you wanna know let's say corner radius,
we will use that in a minute.
You want using grayscale where
I have just set the color, so
it doesn't make any sense.
But actually, opacity.
From here, I can drive opacity.
I nodded here, like so.
Or I can also drag you to the preview.
If I can take the opacity and drag it to
the preview, it's doing the same thing.
Okay, so
now I can change this value, okay,
this is from zero to
one half strong friend.
Everything here, not everything but
negative 80% of the things
that you can do with the views,
is actually applying the modifier, okay?
So, so far we've seen how to add a
modifier by adding the code, just dot and
look for the function, That modifies
the view or by using the library.
Remember the library is this plus
sign at the top right of the screen.
We have another way we can open
what is known as the inspector.
So using now, command click,
not option click, Command click.
I can command click over the view,
the text.
And I have a lot of options, okay?
A lot of options.
For example,
there is an embed in H-stack that is just
creating an H tag that contains a text.
I will need that, so I will go back.
We will use many of those options,
Command Click,
there is a main conditional,
there is a repeat, what's that?
Let's try, repeat, look at that.
It has a four each,
with something kind of weird that says,
zero to five, and
it's repeating that text five times and
because it's an edge talk, it looks
like this, but I can move this for each.
Within the beanstalk that we have here and
now it looks like that.
So for each he's repeating
the views inside five times.
But anyway, he wasn't looking for that.
Command click again over text.
And there is something that says,
show swift UI inspector,
that can also be trigger by using,
look at those little icons there.
That's control option.
So control option click will automatically
trigger the inspector quicker.
This inspector.
Let me do some work over the text.
For example, I can change the font.
I can say that it's the large title.
Here is the color.
I can change the alignment.
I can change some properties.
These properties are just,
adding or modifying the modifiers.
Again, I'm not explain
you the way to do this.
It's up to you.
If you prefer the inspector, if you prefer
to write code, if you prefer to look
into the library, it's just the same
everything goes to the same place.
So now everything is multi
line foreground purple
large title,
you can see it has a larger font.
So, ctrl option click goes
automatically to the inspector.
And here at the bottom,
it says, add modifier.
So there you can see where
another way to add modifiers and
here have a long large list of
modifiers that you can apply to that.
Again, these are just different ways
to access the list of possibilities.
I know that at this point,
you're still not getting why this is
different from just setting attributes?
Okay, let me show you something.
Instead of foreground color, we can also
play another modifier for the background.
It's not called background color,
it's just background, okay?
But within the background,
we can set an image or we can set a color.
For example, I can set a blue background
color, that's not going to look nice.
Why say yellow?
So do you see anything weird there?
Regarding the padding, for
those of you that are coming from CSS,
there is something weird, what's going on?
Where is the padding?
By the way, I didn't set
the number on the padding, right?
But actually, by default,
it's applying the default padding
that is based on the IOS guidelines.
But if you want you can change the number.
So now we have 30 something,
we don't know the unit yet but
let's say 30 pixels is a pixel but
it's a pixels, so what's wrong?
What about the background
color is it the binary margin?
>> To the padding
the background color stuff.
>> Yeah, so, typically we expect
the background color to appear there.
Well, here you will see
the magic of modifiers.
What if we change the order?
We are not setting properties of our
views, we are creating new views.
So adding the padding, so
creating a view with a padding before
applying the background color or
not will not create the same effect.
Okay, we're not setting properties or
attributes.
We are creating new views.
So the order in which we apply
the modifiers is important.
And look at this,
you cannot do this with CSS.
You can apply padding twice because again,
this is not a setter.
I'm not setting the padding.
I'm creating a new view with a new
padding and after I got the new view,
I can have another view
with another panning.
So, do we have marsh in here is
with you I know we use panning, but
it depends on where you're using padding.
Okay, it's kind of a Martian.
Compare with CSS, okay,
any question at this point?
>> So a lot of views if
you keep adding modifiers,
so is that a performance problem or?
>> No it's not a performance problem
because we are shaft grading structures.
High performance structures, and
yeah, we are copying data but
we are copying integers and strings and-
>> You create them and they can be getting
discarded, right after-
>> They get discarded,
right after we haven't
get into that point.
I mean in terms of do we have
garbage collector in Swift?
The answer is no.
However, we have something
that at the end, I mean for
the basics of Swift it looks like we
have garbage collector but is not.
Is something known as arc, automatic
reference counting that instead of, so
the garbage collector is
something that runs with your app,
it's a process that runs with your app.
This is not the case.
This is a static analyzer
that runs with a compiler.
That kind of for most of the situations
kind of solves the problem.
So, but also, because it's not a class,
it's not actually creating
objects in higher memory.
Just stuck with basically-
>> I'm just thinking if there's this is
like a scope, all this stuff,
so once you exited-
>> Exactly,
when it gets to the final structure.
>> Yeah.
>> That goes to the framework
that finally render-
>> I will clear it right after this.
>> Yeah, so the thing about done,
so this is high performance.
So if the question is about performance,
this is high performance.
I know that from an OOP point of view,
you look at these and says,
yeah, we are creating objects and
objects and objects and objects and
object but that's not the case.
These are not instances of classes, these
are structures that are much simpler.
Okay, that's it make sense?
Do you have any questions at this point?
Nope, nothing on the chat.
Okay, so we are going to delete this and
make something more interesting but
we are just playing with this for
the first time.
>> One question.
>> Is they lost their preview code
trying to follow the inspector
can Can I quickly be shown how
to get the preview back editor?
>> Well, yeah, probably my guess is that
you press for some reason, command return.
Command return hides the premium.
Okay, where's my preview?
So actually,
if you open this little menu that you
have know it's a menu there,
that's a menu.
Okay, so if you click there, there is
a submenu from with apps options for
the editor and here you need to select
Canvas and Canvas is a preview.
And that's how Canvas go can
you get the preview back.
Okay, so you click their Canvas.